>> Jen Kramer: We are into chapter two,
this is the hamburger layout.
You could go ahead and
take a look here in the instructions
what we're going to be doing.
We're gonna be building
a CSS-only hamburger button.
>> Jen Kramer: And we're gonna
go ahead and code this together.
So what you're gonna see here is that I
have given you some other resources here,
if you want some other
CSS-animated hamburgers.
We're gonna use a Font Awesome button
to actually be our hamburger button
here today.
But you could go to this website and
pick a different one.
It actually has CSS-only animation.
You can download the code, and
drop it in your page and use that instead.
And I am heavily basing what
I'm talking about today on this
fabulous article that comes from Medium on
how to build a pure CSS hamburger menu.
And I'll just go ahead and
put that up here,
>> Jen Kramer: To give him credit.
>> Jen Kramer: His name is Mark Caron,
okay?
And he wrote this terrific article that
will walk you through the whole thing.
So we're gonna go on ahead and use that.
So if you go on ahead and
open up your begin folder,
I'm gonna go ahead and open my index.html.
And the other file I'm
gonna open here is nav.css.
I'm gonna opened that one to the side so
that I can have these next to each other
when I turn on my word wrap,
>> Jen Kramer: So
we can see what's going on here, okay?
And just to show you what this web page
is looking like at this point in time,
we go on ahead and
open this up in a browser.
>> Jen Kramer: This is what our website
looks like at this point in time.
And the reason why it looks like
this is because I've coded this for
you so
far with a mobile-only layout, okay?
So in other words, all these boxes
are gonna stack on top of each other.
I'm gonna go through all this code
with you here in just a moment.
So we've got our logo up here on the top,
we've got some kinda
navigation going on here.
We have a whole bunch of resources.
By the way, to the person who said I
should mention my book, there it is,
Before You Code, [LAUGH] okay?
It's all about how to plan websites.
And as you scroll on down here,
there's more information.
Here's a little bit about
the Frontend Masters Bootcamp coming up.
Probably not for you guys,
but maybe for your friends.
A little bit about HTML, CSS,
and JavaScript, Brian Holt and
I taught that last year.
CSS-Tricks, here are some developers
you should be following on Twitter.
And then some design resources
down here in the bottom, okay?
So this is what that page is
looking like at this point in time.
If we take a quick peek, let's see,
down here at the bottom, this is what
these are gonna look like towards the end.
Just so
you see what that looks like, okay?
So we are gonna put some
columns together here.
We're gonna do funky things with those
columns, watch the developer column,
the third one.
Ooh, we're putting the third one on
the bottom, ooh, how cool is that?
And then we have to make it go horizontal,
my gosh, we have so much to do.
Here it is, medium, okay?
And then, of course, small,
everything's stacked on top of each other.
So that's where we're headed today,
all right?
Okay, good, so if you take a look at
your HTML here just for a moment,
real quick, what have we got going on?
I have segmented your style sheets
here into individual style sheets.
And I wanna be really clear
about this right now.
I'm not suggesting that
this is a best practice for
you to do on your style sheets at home.
No, sir, [LAUGH] this is all
about teaching and learning.
And so what I've done is I've segmented
these into individual style sheets,
kind of like you do individual
partial files with Sass.
Although, we don't have
partial files in CSS, so
I am just using these as
individual CSS files here.
So this will help you find
things in the CSS easily.
We'll continue to add on style sheets
as we work through this example across
a couple of different chapters.
So that's what's going on here, okay?
Here's our body, we have a header, okay?
The header's got a logo.
Any Font Awesome friends out there,
Font Awesome people?
Yay, we love Font Awesome, so we've
got a Font Awesome icon in here, okay?
Here's our nav bar as it starts,
super simple, nav tags, bulleted list.
That's your basic nav bar, okay?
Down here, we have the main portion of the
website because this is the main focus of
the page.
That's when you use the main tag.
I'm divided these into several sections,
each section has a class.
So we have a class of first, and
then we have a series of articles, okay?
So we have an h1 starting off the section.
Section should always be associated
with some kind of heading with it, and
so there we go.
That's our,
what is this whole section about?
Jen's Awesome Resources, then we have
a series of articles here, okay?
Bunch of articles, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
These are just headings, paragraphs,
lists, things like that,
as you continue to scroll down.
Then we get to our next section,
all right?
And we'll just go on through here.
When you get to developers, this is
probably syntax you haven't seen before.
If you think about what those developer
things are, there's a picture, and
there's a name.
And I think there was a little
icon to link you off somewhere.
I'm using this as a bulleted list
because it is a list of developers, so
the correct semantic way of
coding this would be a list.
And then inside of that,
each of these is a figure, right?
Cuz in a figure, we can have a link,
we can have a picture,
we can have a caption to go with it, okay?
And the caption has my name,
my affiliation, my Twitter link, okay?
So if you're wondering about the HTML and
why I did it,
that's why I did it that way.
And then down here at
the bottom is our last one.
This is our list of resources,
there it is, so
there's our list of resources,
it's just another bulleted list.
Everybody clear on the HTML?
That’s what we’re starting with.
Okay, over here, if you wanted to look
at styles.css, you're welcome to do so.
We actually won’t do anything
with that file today,
that is the default styling for
this document.
So you’ll find colors and whatever,
centered images and a bunch of other
things like that in that styles document.
Apparently, there's some debate online
about what is the best way to do this.
Whether it's Font Awesome,
whether it's SVGs, or
whatever for your hamburger button and
for your close button.
You can do whatever you want,
Font Awesome is really super easy.
Again, for teaching purposes,
it's really straightforward.
I've been told by some people
in the class that the version of
Font Awesome here may be
a little bit out of date, okay?
So if you wanna go through
the debug process and
bring that up to the most recent
version of Font Awesome, have at it.
And remember,
I told you also about this particular
website that will give you some
other options for hamburger buttons.
The Squeeze, the Arrow, whoo,
the Arrow Alt going the other way,
or whatever, the Collapse.
So these are other things
that you could swap in here
instead of using the Font Awesome icons.
So, again, a lot of times, things that
I'm doing are because they're just really
straightforward for teaching purposes.
You are, of course, welcome to
use whatever methodology is gonna
work better in your particular situation.
The other thing that I had
somebody tell me, too,
is that I have put in a whole
bunch of h1s for these sections.
And that apparently this information
is a little bit out of date.
But it used to be we used to always put
in h1s here for things like sections, and
h1s for articles, and that type of thing.
Apparently, now we are doing one h1 for
the entire web page, so these should
probably be something like an h2.
Again, I'm not gonna bother going
ahead and changing the code on this.
But that's obviously a really
easy fix to make, as well.